Add RHCOS 4-7 Release Notes (#28368)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-7-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-4-7-rhcos"]
=== {op-system-first}

[id="ocp-4-7-enhanced-disk-provisioning"]

> ==== Enhanced disk provisioning for LUKS and RAID devices

Reviewer: "LUKS and RAID devices and FBA DASD storage"?  "LUKS, RAID, and FBA DASD devices" doesn't sound right because the first two are virtual and the last is physical.  Or we could just simplify to "Enhanced disk provisioning".

Author: How about, "Enhanced disk provisioning for LUKS, RAID, and FBA DASD"?

Reviewer: Sure.

> {op-system} 4.7 includes several improvements to disk provisioning for bare metal deployments:

Reviewer: @Prashanth684 Should we mention multipath?

Reviewer 2: yes, i think so since it is an officially supported feature ? Also need to mention that it works on clusters installed with 4.7+ only.

maybe an example can be provided on how it can be setup as a day 2 operation with a sample machine config like:
```
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: "master"
  name: 99-master-kargs-mpath
spec:
  kernelArguments:
    - 'rd.multipath=default'
    - 'root=/dev/disk/by-label/dm-mpath-root'
```

* Native Ignition support for LUKS disk encryption provides additional configurability for encrypted root filesystems, as well as support for encryption of additional data filesystems.
* {op-system} now supports boot disk mirroring, except on s390x, providing redundancy in the case of disk failure.
* {op-system} on s390x can be installed onto FBA DASD disks.

[NOTE]
====

> LUKS configuration can no longer be performed in the `/etc/clevis.json` file. Provisioning fails if `/etc/clevis.json` is specified in the machine config.

Reviewer: It turns out that only new clusters can switch to native Ignition LUKS, and existing clusters should continue to use `clevis.json`.

Author: Not sure I am understanding right 😁  but let me know if this rewording makes sense:

```
[NOTE]
====
Native Ignition LUKS configuration can only be performed on new clusters. Existing clusters must continue to specify the `/etc/clevis.json` file in the machine config.
====
```
❓

Reviewer: This is more words but hopefully conveys a fuller picture.  WDYT?

> On new clusters, LUKS configuration must use the native Ignition mechanism; provisioning will fail if the legacy `/etc/clevis.json` file is included in the machine config.  On clusters upgraded from {prod-name} 4.6 or earlier, LUKS can only be configured via `/etc/clevis.json`.

(I'm trying to avoid implying in either case that LUKS _must_ be specified, since it's an optional feature.)

[id="ocp-4-7-rhcos"]
=== {op-system-first}

[id="ocp-4-7-complex-root-devices"]

> ==== Complex root tooling for LUKS and RAID devices

Author: Thanks for calling that out. I like your suggestion and have updated.

> Disk tooling enhancements now support complex root devices in bare metal deployments. For example, software RAID improvements now allow for more robust nodes that can still reboot in the event of a drive failure. And support for multiple LUKS root devices means that you now have added capabilities such as using the Local Storage Operator in file mode, having your non-rootfs data encrypted at rest, and use of third-party software that requires local persistent storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{op-system} 4.7 includes several improvements to disk provisioning for bare metal deployments.  Native Ignition support for LUKS disk encryption provides additional configurability for encrypted root filesystems, as well as support for encryption of additional data filesystems.  In addition, {op-system} now supports boot disk mirroring (except on s390x), providing redundancy in the case of disk failure.
```

Author: Nice, thanks for this! I'll use your suggested change. I've also dropped the bulleted list that follows.

Reviewer: It looks as though this change didn't make it in?

Author: Sorry for the confusion, the change made it but I changed it to a list format (lines [48-57](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/28368/files#diff-14b6355bc5db567351b9e43a469c73396794e644c2dd1fc8523417f2f7b72c16R48-R57))

Author: Will remove the first paragraph

> Disk tooling enhancements now support complex root devices in bare metal deployments. For example, software RAID improvements now allow for more robust nodes that can still reboot in the event of a drive failure. And support for multiple LUKS root devices means that you now have added capabilities such as using the Local Storage Operator in file mode, having your non-rootfs data encrypted at rest, and use of third-party software that requires local persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disk tooling enhancements now support complex root devices in bare metal deployments. For example, software RAID improvements now allow for more robust nodes that can still reboot in the event of a drive failure. Support for multiple LUKS root devices means that you now have added capabilities such as using the Local Storage Operator in file mode, having your non-rootfs data encrypted at rest, and use of third-party software that requires local persistent storage.
```

Author: I'm removing this paragraph.

> In addition, support for complex root devices allows:
> 
> * New Ignition-native mechanism for configuring root filesystem LUKS. This means that provisioning will fail if the old `/etc/clevis.json` is specified in the Ignition config.
> * Support for LUKS encryption of additional data partitions.
> * Support for boot disk mirroring, except on s390x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
LUKS configuration can no longer be performed using `/etc/clevis.json`.  Provisioning will fail if `/etc/clevis.json` is specified in the MachineConfig.
====
```

Author: Added this, too.

[NOTE]
====

> LUKS configuration can no longer be performed using `/etc/clevis.json`. Provisioning will fail if `/etc/clevis.json` is specified in the machine config.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
LUKS configuration can no longer be performed in the `/etc/clevis.json` file. Provisioning fails if `/etc/clevis.json` is specified in the machine config.
```

Author: ✅

====

[id="ocp-4-7-bootupd"]

> ==== Update the bootloader using bootupd

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Update the bootloader by using bootupd
```

Author: ✅

> On any unencrypted s390x nodes that were originally installed on {product-title} 4.3 or later, the first boot into {product-title} 4.7 takes considerable time proportional to the size of the root filesystem. This is due to a disk format conversion when nodes are first booted into {product-title} 4.7. To prevent data loss, do not interrupt the conversion process.

Author: @bgilbert Ignition updates here are based on your [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/26801#issuecomment-754477800). PTAL.

Reviewer: It'd be clearer to say "the first boot into {op-system} 4.7", since it's a per-node thing.  Also, because we always provision nodes using the original OS version, "On any unencrypted nodes on s390x clusters originally installed with {product-title} 4.3 or later..."

But let's hold for a bit.  The format conversion code may be pulled from 4.7.

Reviewer: It's been pulled.  Let's drop this paragraph.

> With bootupd, {op-system} users now have access to a cross-distribution, system-agnostic OS update tool that manages firmware and boot updates in UEFI and legacy BIOS boot modes that run on modern architectures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With `bootupd`, {op-system} users now have access to a cross-distribution, system-agnostic OS update tool that manages firmware and boot updates in UEFI and legacy BIOS boot modes that run on modern architectures.
```

This looks like a [particular system item](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/master/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference), so it should be enclosed in backticks.

Author: ✅

> With bootupd, {op-system} users now have access to a cross-distribution, system-agnostic OS update tool that manages firmware and boot updates in UEFI and legacy BIOS boot modes that run on modern architectures.

Author: @cgwalters and @ashcrow - This release note is pulled from this docs PR: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/28071. Does this look good to you here?

[id="ocp-4-7-rhcos-rhel-8-3-packages"]
==== {op-system} now supports RHEL 8.3

> {op-system} is now using Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8.3 packages. {product-title} 4.6 and below will stay with RHEL 8.2 packages. This is relevant for hardware support, new NetworkManager features, and so on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{op-system} now uses Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8.3 packages. {product-title} 4.6 and below will continue to use RHEL 8.2 packages. This is relevant for hardware support, new NetworkManager features, and other version-specific items.
```

> ! Use _and so on_ when you list a clear sequence of elements, such as “1, 2, 3, and so on” or “Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and so on.” Otherwise, rewrite the sentence to replace etc. with something more descriptive, such as “and other output.”

Author: Thanks, I didn't like "and so on" so I've gotten a bit more descriptive here:

> This enables you to have the latest fixes, features, and enhancements, such as NetworkManager features, as well as the latest hardware support and driver updates.

> {op-system} is now using Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8.3 packages. {product-title} 4.6 and below will stay with RHEL 8.2 packages. This is relevant for hardware support, new NetworkManager features, and so on.

Author: @travier - This is based on your [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/26801#issuecomment-746394196). Does this look OK to you?

> {op-system} is now using Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8.3 packages. {product-title} 4.6 and below will stay with RHEL 8.2 packages. This is relevant for hardware support, new NetworkManager features, and so on.

Author: @travier - This is based on your [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/26801#issuecomment-746394196). Does this look OK to you?

Reviewer 4: LGTM

[id="ocp-4-7-rhcos-kdump"]
==== {op-system} now supports `kdump` service

> The `kdump` service is now supported in {op-system} to provide a crash-dumping mechanism for debugging kernel issues. This service enables you to save system memory content for later analysis.

Author: @travier - This is based on your [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/26801#issuecomment-748102384). Does this look OK to you?

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should add that this is not managed at the cluster level and must be enabled and configured manually on a per-node basis.

Author: Added, thanks!

> The `kdump` service is introduced in Technical Preview in {op-system} to provide a crash-dumping mechanism for debugging kernel issues. This service enables you to save system memory content for later analysis. The `kdump` service is not managed at the cluster-level and must be enabled and configured manually on a per-node basis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `kdump` service is introduced in Technical Preview in {op-system} to provide a crash-dumping mechanism for debugging kernel issues. You can use this service to save system memory content for later analysis. The `kdump` service is not managed at the cluster-level and must be enabled and configured manually on a per-node basis.
```

Author: ✅

> The `kdump` service is now supported in {op-system} to provide a crash-dumping mechanism for debugging kernel issues. This service enables you to save system memory content for later analysis. The `kdump` service is not managed at the cluster-level and must be enabled and configured manually on a per-node basis.

Reviewer: @travier Should we call this a "preview"?

Reviewer 4: Indeed. This is more a preview than something we intend to fully support long term. Should we use https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview?

Author: Added, thanks!

[id="ocp-4-7-ignition"]
==== Ignition updates
The following Ignition updates are now available:

* {op-system} now supports Ignition config spec 3.2.0. This update provides support for disk partition resizing, LUKS encrypted storage, and `gs://` URLs.
* When executing in non-default AWS partitions, such as GovCloud or AWS China, Ignition now fetches `s3://` resources from the same partition.

> * Ignition now supports AWS EC2 Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2).

Author: @bgilbert Ignition updates here are based on your [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/26801#issuecomment-754477800). PTAL.
